# The Importance of Regression in People Analytics {#inf-model}

In the 19th century, when Francis Galton first used the term 'regression' to describe a statistical phenomenon (see Chapter \@ref(linear-reg-ols)), little did he know how important that term would be today.  Many of the most powerful tools of statistical inference that we have at our disposal today can be traced back to the types of early analysis that Galton and his contemporaries were engaged in.  The sheer number of different regression-related methodologies and variants that are available to researchers and practitioners today is mind-boggling, and there are still rich veins of ongoing research that are focused on defining and refining new forms of regression to tackle new problems.

Neither could Galton have imagined the advent of the age of data we now live in.   Those of us (like me) who entered the world of work even as recently as 20 years ago remember a time when most problems could not be expected to be solved using a data-driven approach, because there simply was no data.  Things are very different today, with data being collected and processed all around us and available to use as direct or indirect measures of the phenomena we are interested in.  

Along with the growth in data that we have seen in recent years, we have also seen a rapid growth in the availability of statistical tools - open-source and free to use - that fundamentally change how we go about analytics.   Gone are the clunky, complex, repeated steps on calculators or spreadsheets.  In their place are lean statistical programming languages that can implement a regression analysis with a single line of code, and reproduce analytics at scale.

So given that we have access to well-developed methodology, rich sources of data and readily accessible tools, it is somewhat surprising that many analytics practitioners have a limited knowledge and understanding of regression and its applications.  The aim of this book is to encourage inexperienced people analytics practitioners to 'dip their toes' further into the wide and varied world of regression in order to deliver more targeted and precise insights to their organizations and stakeholders on the problems they are most interested in.  

It is my firm belief that all people analytics professionals should have a strong understanding of regression models and how to implement and interpret them in practice, and my aim with this book is to provide those who need it with help in getting there.  In this chapter we will set the scene for the technical learning in the remainder of the book by outlining the relevance of regression models in people analytics practice.  We also touch on some general inferential modeling theory to set a context for later chapters, and we provide a preview of the contents, structure and learning objectives of this book.

